# garcon-bot-app

This project is a Lambda function that triggers a GitHub Action when it receives a valid message from a Telegram bot.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions and an API Gateway API. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

## Happy path scenario

To deploy the application, you need to follow these steps:

1. Create a `.env` file starting from the `.env.sample` file
2. Follow the deployment section
3. Use the `GarconTelegramApi` output to set the Telegram bot webhook with the `bin/telegram-set-webhook.js` script

**Done!**

## Deploy the application to AWS

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

- SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
- Node.js - [Install Node.js 22](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the NPM package management tool.
- Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided --parameter-overrides "`tr -s '\n' ' ' < .env`" --profile eomm
```


## Read the output

To read the output of the deployment, you can use the SAM CLI:

```bash
sam list stack-outputs --profile eomm --output json
sam list stack-outputs --profile eomm --output json | jq -r '.[] | select(.OutputKey == "GarconTelegramApi") | .OutputValue'
```

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
sam local invoke GarconTelegramFunction --event events/event.json
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
sam local start-api --env-vars ./.env.json
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/
```


## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
sam logs -n GarconTelegramFunction --stack-name garcon-bot-app --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI:

```bash
sam delete --stack-name garcon-bot-app --profile eomm
```
